# UNEASE
## Abstract: 

Static analysis tools (SATs) are widely applied to detect defects of software projects. However, SATs are overshadowed by a large number of false positives (i.e., unactionable warnings), which severely reduces the usability of SATs. To address this problem, the existing approaches are commonly used machine learning (ML) techniques for actionable warning identification (AWI). For these ML-based AWI approaches, the warning features are one of the most critical parts to effectively identify actionable warnings. To eliminate redundant and irrelevant warning features, ML-based AWI approaches usually incorporate feature selection to determine the feature subset by calculating the importance or correlation of features with warning labels. Nevertheless, warning labels are not always available directly in practice. Thus, it is vital and challenging to select warning features for ML-based AWI approaches when warning labels are absent.

To address the above problem, we propose an UNsupervised fEAture SElection approach called {\name} for ML-based AWI. (1) {\name} first performs the \emph{feature clustering} to gather warning features into clusters, where the number of clusters is automatically determined and features in the same cluster are considered redundant. (2) Subsequently, {\name} performs the \emph{feature ranking} to sort warning features in each cluster with three newly proposed ranking strategies and selects the top-ranked warning feature from each cluster. Based on the selected features, we train a ML classifier to identify actionable warnings. We conduct experiments on nine warning datasets from large-scale and real-world projects and compare {\name} with eight typical feature selection techniques. The overall experimental results show that {\name} is effective for ML-based AWI. Besides, {\name} has a low cost when performing the feature selection and the selected warning features from {\name} have a low redundancy rate.
